2194 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CONTROL SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 25, NO. <START:data>6, NOVEMBER 2017<END>
<START:tema>Feedback Controllers as Financial Advisors for Low-Income Individuals<END>
<START:autor> Hugo Gonzalez Villasanti <END> and<START:autor> Kevin M. Passino <END>, Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—Feedback controllers are introduced to help manage
an individual’s or household’s financial life and build savings. The
controllers can be viewed as financial advisors for an individual’s
resource allocation problem, which is modeled as a nonlinear
discrete time stochastic system with income uncertainties, asset
losses, and constraints on cash flow and credit. We introduce a
model predictive controller (MPC) and a proportional-integralderivative
(PID) controller, and compare them with a benchmark
method employed in finance and economics, stochastic dynamic
programming (DP). Both MPC and PID produce similar consistency
in financial management compared with DP. They also
offer the advantage of low computational complexity relative
to DP, which allows us to efficiently perform assessments of
robustness (reliability) and disturbance rejection (e.g., effects of
uncertainties), both of which are of significant practical engineering
importance. In addition, this flexibility enables us to uncover
the system’s properties, such as the existence of a “poverty
trap" caused by constraints in the control space and dynamics.
The effectiveness of a PID-based aid intervention for low-skilled
and low-endowed agents that lie within the trap is assessed
and contrasted with other existing cash transfer programs, with
results that support a further implementation analysis. These
assessments constitute a novel application of feedback controllers
that, besides effectively dealing with scarcity constraints, present
practical advantages that are shown to translate into an ability
to implement the MPC or PID controller in a variety of ways
for low-income individuals via computer-assistive methods (e.g.,
a cell phone).